---
layout: post
title: Cleaning A Beautiful Mess
---

It was 2008 and a most beautiful spring evening. Penn State’s University 
Park bloom had taken full effect. Classes were well underway, likely 
just past midterms. I was out for a walk. I had not slept in nearly a 
week.

I walked past a public art display of window panes suspended from metal 
posts. Windows hanging in thin air. I saw my reflection and immediately 
realized several profound truths, none of which I can remember. I took 
the most beautiful picture I had ever seen. I began crying hard.

It took a few months to get to that point.

At first it was a subtle increase in social stamina. I became more 
confident. I talked to more people. I became more interested and felt 
much more interesting. I felt old habits of shyness quickly fading away.

I found myself immersed in the psychology of Maslow and Carl Rogers. I 
would later tell a counselor that I was attempting to tip Maslow’s 
pyramid of needs on its side, bypassing the terribly boring base 
physical needs — sleeping, eating — and heading straight to 
self-actualization. I felt like the life of the party no matter where I 
happened to be. Maybe I was.

It can be difficult to explain the depth or intensity of a manic episode 
if one is unfamiliar. If so imagine a strong weather pattern as seen 
from a mountain top. The most beautiful sunrise you have ever seen. 
Clouds flowing at speed. Now like a time-lapse video recording. The 
fastest wind you have felt. The rain pouring now. The changes coming too 
fast to track. A dreadful combination of unpredictability and haste. And 
the most potent desire for more of it.

The truth of a manic episode is that it rarely stays in this sort of 
exalted, revelatory state. It can slip between delusion and depression, 
sometimes quite rapidly. This is exhausting. But the irony of manic 
exhaustion is how much more apparent it can be to others than to the 
self. Delusion is funny like that. It strips even the most self-aware of 
their sight. And it becomes totally exhausting to others.

I did not finish that semester. The summer was spent at home. I slept a 
lot. I took a small job. I formed a tiny routine.

It took a long time to really get myself back. And that part is not very 
interesting, but it is necessary. Go to a therapist. Take the medicine 
if that’s your thing. What I can pass on is that you have to want it. 
You really have to want to get better.

In the brilliant documentary The Secret Life of the Manic Depressive, 
Stephen Fry interviews a number of people who have been dealt this 
illness, this so-called dis-ease. In the process, he asks all of them 
whether they would trade all these experiences — all the great insights, 
risks, pain and extremities — for a “neurotypical” life.

Only a small handful in the film would have wished it away. I found 
myself aligned with the majority. If I were given the ability to return 
my experiences in exchange for pure emotional stability, I would not. It 
is much too valuable to know emotional extremes which bring with them 
gifts of empathy. But it also became apparent in time what an impact the 
siren song of madness had on loved ones. A costly negative mental 
externality, so to speak.

We talk about failing fast and elegantly. There is not much elegance in 
this type of intrapersonal breaking. But the hidden upside to falling at 
such a profound level is if you are given the chance to entirely 
rebuild. It may require reforming trust in relationships or creating new 
patterns of work and play. And hopefully without being too idealistic — 
this is a long haul we’re talking about—it is in the recovery, the next 
act, where there is beauty and meaning.


![Lament for Icarus, Herbert Draper](/assets/lament.jpg)

_Lament for Icarus, Herbert Draper_ 
